title: "3B1B ep1"	
date: 2020-08-30 17:17:00	
categories: jekyll update	
---	


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fNk_zzaMoSs&list=PLZHQObOWTQDPD3MizzM2xVFitgF8hE_ab&index=2&t=277s	


3 distinctive but related perspectives about vectors	


1. Physics	
  : Arrows pointing in space, defined by 	
    1) length	
    2) direction 	
  As long as those 2 facts are the same, you you can move it all around and it's still the same vector. 	
  Vectors can freely sit anywhere they want in space. 	


2. Computer Science	
  : Ordered lists of numbers.	
  The order matters here. 	
  If the length of the list is 2, it's two-dimensional.	


3. Mathematics	
  : Anything where there's a sensible notion of adding 2 vectors, and multiplying a vector by a number	
  Seeks to generalise both of prior views	




At first, we will think about an arrow inside a coordinate system, like the x-y plane, with its tail sitting at the origin.	
In linear algebra, it's almost always the case that your vector will be rooted at the origin. 	
Once we understand a new concept in the context of arrows in space, we'll translate it over to the list-of numbers perspective, which we can do by considering the coordinates of the vector.	


The coordinates of a vector is a pair of numbers that give instructions for how to get from the tail of that vector - at the origin- to its tip. 	
The first number tells you how far to walk along the x-axis, and the second number tells you how far to walk parallel to the y-axis after that. 	
In three dimensions, you add a third axis, called the z-axis, which is perpendicular to both the x- and y-axes, and in this case each vector is associated with an ordered triplet of numbers.	
The third one tells you how far to move parallel to this new z-axis. 	


To distinguish vectors from points, the convention is to write this pair of numbers vertically with square brackets around them. 	
Every pair of numbers gives you one and only one vector, and every vector is associated with one and only one pair of numbers. 	
Likely, Every triplet of numbers gives you one unique vector in space, and every vector in space gives you exactly one triplet of numbers. 	




Addition	
  Let's say we have 2 vectors. 	
  To add these 2 vectors, move the 2nd one so that its tail sits at the tip of the first one.	
  Then if you draw a new vector from the tail of the 1st one to where the tip of the 2nd one now sits, that new vector is their sum. 	
  This definition of addition, is pretty much the only time in linear algebra where we let vectors stray away from the origin. 	
  Why do we add vectors like this?	
  The lecturer like to think about it that each vector represents a certain movement, a step with a certain distance and direction in space. 	
  If you take a step along the 1st vector, then take a step in the direction and distance described by the 2nd vector, the overall effect is just the same as if you moved along the sum of those 2 vectors to start with. 	
  In other words, if the 1st vector has coordiantes (1,2), and the second one has coordiantes (3,-1), the new vector has coordinates 1+3 and 2+(-1). 	
  In general, vector addition in this list-of numbers conception looks like matching up their terms, and adding each one together. 	



Multiplication & Scala	
    If you take the number 2, and multiply it by a given vector, it means you stretch out that vector so that it's 2 times as long as when you started. 	
    If you multiply that vector by 1/3, it means that you squish it down so that it's 1/3 of the original length. 	
    When you multyply it by -1.8, then the vector first gets flipped around, then stretched out by that factor of 1.8. 	
    These processes are called 'scaling'.	
    Whenever you catch a number like 2 or 1/3 or -1.8 acting like this - scaling some vector, you call it a "scalar". 	
    It's common to use the word "scalar" interchangeably with the word "number". 	
    In the conception of vectors as lists of numbers, multiplying a given vector by a scalar means multiplying each one of those components by that scalar. 	





In truth, it doesn't matter whether you choose arrows or lists. 	
The usefulness of linear algebra is the ability to translate back and forth between them. 	
It gives a data analyst a nice way to conceptualise many lists of numbers in a visual way, shich can seriously clarify patters in data, and give a global view of what certain operations do. 	
On the filp side, it gives physicists and computer graphics programmers a language to describe space and the manipulation fo space using numbers that can be crunched and run through a computer. 	

